# The Dark

<!--toc:start-->

- [The Dark](#the-dark)
  - [Origins](#origins)
    - [Primordial Force](#primordial-force)
  - [Powers](#powers)
    - [Communication Interception](#communication-interception)
    - [Mastery over Space and Time](#mastery-over-space-and-time)
  - [Goals](#goals) - [Clean Up Secrets](#clean-up-secrets)
  <!--toc:end-->

The Dark is the force that is silencing the communication between the Imperium. Exactly what it is
or how it works is a mystery, but one thing is for sure: it is in control of the dark ships. The
first (and only) time anyone on Serapis saw these dark ships was when one crash-landed onto the
planet's surface near the south pole.

## Origins

The origin of the Dark is unknown to the Imperium. It seems to have emerged from the black holes in
our galaxy.

### Primordial Force

The Dark emerged as a force at the beginning of the universe. It was born with the intention of
containing dark secrets that should not be known. It fells empires that have learned too much or
learned things they are not supposed to know.

## Powers

### Communication Interception

The Dark seems to be able to intercept all forms of light-based and faster-than-light communication.
Ansibles, radio communications and more do not work in the presence of the Dark.

### Mastery over Space and Time

The Dark is also able to manipulate both time and space freely. The dark ships are all connected to
one another through a series of portals. These portals do not always lead to the same point in time
though, and can take you to either the distant past or the far future.

The Dark also appears to be extra-dimensional, meaning the Black Fleet spans more spatial dimensions
than we can perceive. This means that stepping into a black ship and through its portals can remove
you completely from your home plane. If you don't find a way back to the portal, you can be stranded
forever in the wrong plane.

The Dark can also manipulate space in a seemingly non-Euclidean way. Black ships are often bigger or
smaller on the inside than they appear on the outside, and corridors that should lead in circles can
take you to places that should not exist.

### Madness

As the keepers of dark secrets, the Dark is able to drive people mad with these same secrets. This
can induce intense psychosis, hallucinations, and eventually death.

### Secrets and Observation

Because the Dark is the keeper of forbidden secrets, they also have mastery over secrets more
generally. The Dark knows everything about you, no matter who you are. This is reflected in the
design of the interiors of their ships; rather than being built for habitation, they seem to be
reflections of people's secrets in still life.

Moreover, the Dark just seems to know everything about you. How it gains this information is
unknown, but it appears to have been watching you from the moment you were born and it will continue
to watch you until you die.

## Goals

Whether the Dark even has any goals is up for debate. It seems to be more of a force of nature than
an actual organization with intent. Like a virus, it just _does_ what it has always done without a
need for thought.

### Record Keeper

The Dark is kind of like a cosmic record keeper. It chronicles the full trajectory of the lives of
all people and all things. It knows who you are, who you will become, and what will happen after
you're gone.

### Clean Up Secrets

The Dark's role in the universe is that it cleans up _black secrets_. These are secrets that are not
supposed to be known by anybody. Typically these secrets concern the inner workings of the universe
or of things like the True Purpose.

When it finds the things that know of the black secrets, it also acts as a kind of warden, throwing
the offenders into a strange dimension forever.

## Symbolism of the Dark

The Dark is the being that prevents your self-realization. It has simultaneously seen everything
you've ever done, thus locking you as an object in yourself, and has seen everything you will ever
do, yet it cannot share this knowledge with you. In this way, it is both the thing that has bound
you to yourself as a consciousness exerting its perception upon you, while also representing the
fear of the unknown that prevents our self-realization.
