# Brief Pitch

_*Hellraiser*_ is set on the fringe of a [dying galactic empire](./imperium/main.md). You are
situated on the planet of [Serapis](./serapis/main.md) in the greatest city that still remains,
[Luxor](./serapis/luxor/main.md). To your knowledge, Serapis might be the last planet in the
Imperium; your colony has received very little in terms of communication with the outside world. The
strange flashes in the sky don't do much to quell the anxiety of the planet's residents.

You know that the Imperium was under attack from some outside threat when communications started
going dark. Nothing worked anymore: ansibles, radio communications, even physical letter carriers
all went without a response. One theme pervaded these brief communications before they were
silenced: a growing darkness, seemingly unstoppable, coming from beyond the borders of our galaxy.
Nobody seemed to be able to identify it and those that did were never heard from again.

Up until twelve years ago, Luxor seemed to have been unaffected by whatever is going on out there
except for the brief flashes of technicolor radiance in the sky. Its citizens waited with baited
breath, anticipating the moment when they would be silenced by their mysterious attacker. Soon
enough, cities on Serapis started going dark. It started on the other side of the planet at
[Amonet](./serapis/amonet.md), a mining hamlet. From there, it spread to capture the entire planet,
each city, town and hamlet going dark in turn until Luxor was alone in the silence. The last
communication that Amonet put out before its silence was that it had sighted a ship crash-landing
into the planet's surface. It had been unlike any ship they'd ever seen: dark and enormous, laden
with spikes and tendrils across its entire surface, its fireball from atmospheric reentry trailing
for miles behind it.

Many people suspected that this was the ship of their mysterious enemy. Perhaps the Imperium had
come back to save them and the ship had been shot down! However, once communications started going
dark, the rumor was that something terrible had survived the crash and was now moving in a tide
across Serapis. Right after the crash, Luxor sent out some of its tiny [armed
forces](./serapis/luxor/military.md) to investigate. They were never heard from again. After that,
nobody ventured beyond the city's walls, afraid that what had happened to the first expedition might
also happen to them.

Now, Luxor is alone in the stifling silence. Even the flashes in the sky have stopped. Your city
seems to have survived the chaos unharmed except for the fact that now, it is completely and utterly
alone. With no supply shipments and no outside assistance, Luxor needed to quickly switch its
economy to become completely self-sufficient in the savannah environment of northern Serapis. With
few people capable of tending to or creating the Imperium's advanced technology, the [technology of
Serapis](./technology/main.md) has regressed to gasoline-powered motorbikes and other staples that
might be familiar to us in the 21st century.

This is where you come in. You are a member of the [First Company of Messengers of our Lady
Thoth.](./messengers/first_company.md) Your order is mostly composed of the undesirables of the
city: miscreants, criminals, felons, and those with no place better to go. Your company was
established earlier this year and your objective is simple: find out what happened to the other
cities, establish communication, and report back. Are you up to the challenge, or will your light
fade like all the others?

# Where to Look Next

Many of the links in this markdown file are good places to start. Personally, I might recommend
taking a look at a description of Serapis before moving to more detailed descriptions of Luxor.
