# René

René is an extra-dimensional entity that will occasionally linger on
[Serapis](/setting/serapis/main.md#serapis). Where it goes when it's not on Serapis is a mystery.
René is one of the main forms of 'human' contact that the players will get on their journey. René
uses it/its pronouns.

## Origin

René is not forthcoming about where it's from except for the fact that it is somehow related to
whatever caused the darkness. René is supposedly pretty young for their species, although what that
means in a human context is a mystery. René will talk about coming from 'the Tree' quite often but
nobody is quite sure exactly what or where the Tree is.

## Appearance

René changes appearance slightly with every encounter. Its age varies but it is usually in the range
of child to late 40s. René has white skin, an androgynous appearance and is pretty lean while being
very conventionally attractive. It also has long brown hair which is usually done in a braid and
tied back with a red kerchief. The kerchief is pointed to give the impression of ears. René wears
simple and functional clothes, usually fashioned out of linen and varying shades of off-white and
beige. It doesn't wear shoes. Its eyes for its irises being completely black.

Another distinctive feature of René is that because it is extra-dimensional, it always appear to be
getting used to its human body. It moves in ways you would not expect from a person. Over time, as
the players encounter René more often, it seems to be adjusting and will move with more grace.

Finally, René always seems a bit off. There's something a little bit uncanny about it, as if it's a
creature walking in the shape of a person. Its face always seems a bit askew as if its wearing a
mask. The players will notice this before they learn that René is actually extra-dimensional, hence
its uncomfortable but indiscernible appearance.

## Abilities

René is extra-dimensional, meaning it can phase in and out of reality at will. It gives the
impression it's almost stepping behind a green screen that nobody else can see and when you look
behind the screen, René is gone.

René also cannot be killed by human weapons. Its mortal body can be broken but it will eventually
come back, completely unharmed. Whenever it is damaged, it doesn't bleed and seems to still be able
to move around normally as if it was undamaged. This gives the impression that it is kind of like a
puppet on strings, its locomotion not controlled by muscles but by something else.

René cannot be contained either due to their teleportation abilities. Any attempt to shackle René
will be unsuccessful if it so chooses.

René has an uncanny ability to know things about people. It is capable of reading people to a
disturbing degree, knowing things about them that they didn't even know about themselves. René also
knows people's secrets although which secrets it knows and which secrets it doesn't know is tough to
gauge. It says it has "eyes and ears everywhere."

René's appearance also belies the fact that it is extremely strong. It does not often use this
strength but when it does, it is pretty terrifying. René can throw a fully grown man more than a
dozen feet in the air without breaking a sweat.

René can also manifest parts of itself remotely. This means that, for instance, it can summon
fingers, eyes, ears or any other appendage completely separate from itself. It can even do so across
objects, speaking to its extra-dimensional abilities. It does not use this ability often (at least
that people can see) because people find it (understandably) disturbing.

## Temperament

René has a certain zest about life that makes them unique. It loves to laugh and joke and it has an
unshakeable child-like wonderment about the universe. One can often catch René daydreaming or
looking at bugs or birds. They can do this for literally hours without getting bored.

It seems to love humans because of how different their experience is to its own. As a result, it
rarely harms humans directly unless they are harming each other already. René will also attempt (to
varying degrees) to blend in with human society so it does not frighten anyone.

The primary character trait of René is that it lives off of secrets and schemes in spite of its good
nature. It is always spinning multiple plates at once, concocting schemes to get people to turn on
each other in ways that René finds amusing. René is also skilled at manipulating people to either do
its bidding or to get others to fight each other. It is more than capable of achieving this because
of its vast network of secrets and its strange ability to intuit human emotions.

## Motivations

René's motivations are mysterious. As mentioned in [this section](#temperament), it lives off of
secrets and it appears that building its network of secrets is part of its goal. René also claims
that it is a "messenger" although it does not specify between whom it delivers messages. In an
uncharacteristic show of deference, René actually seems to be afraid of the things it delivers
messages between. This might be why it started its habit of collecting secrets: it needed blackmail
on its recipients so it would not suffer consequences. It also began diverting the ire of its
recipients towards each other so that René would not have to take any unnecessary heat.

René's real motivation
