# First Contact

## Chapter 1: Limbo

They say no plan ever survives first contact with the enemy. When we drew up to the black ship, a
cancerous spine in the midst of the savanna, we thought we knew what we were doing. Give it a peek,
see if there were any survivors, put down resistance if we encountered it, figure out what had
brought it down, and get out. Like all good plans, it was simple, easy to remember.

I think there were eight of us at the start. It was me, Constance, Agrippa, and Xochitl on security
detail. I was squad lead and I'd brought only my best boys on this mission. As we neared the
behemoth ship though, I felt a strange incredulity. Its crash landing a week prior had been the most
significant even in our planet's (admittedly brief) history. Yet here I was, rifle in hand, ready to
shoot at... what? Humans? Aliens? The mission briefing had told us to "be ready for anything." When
you're in the business for long enough, you know that's code for "fuck if we know, good luck."

Nothing had come out of the ship since its arrival. Okula's few wall-mounted guns from the days of
the Wasteland Wars had been trained on the visitor 24/7. I had no doubt that the operators were so
jumpy that if so much as a fly got any funny ideas, it would be vaporized on sight. I had no
confidence we wouldn't be fired upon when we left the ship, but that was a problem for when we made
it out. As it stood, our merry band was drawing up to what might plausibly be an airlock. It was
already open for us. The airlock had no inner door, and just led directly into the black belly of
the ship. Nothing could be made out from within.

"That doesn't look up to code," the engineer in our squad said with a half-hearted chuckle. I think
his name was Jerry? He was a white middle-aged man with grey hair whose photo was probably just
below the dictionary definition of his occupation. Xochitl echoed the forced laugh, fiddling with
the weight of her gun. The rest of the company which was composed of a medical doctor Alberta,
xenobiologist Elsa, and rescue operator Jack just shifted where they stood, supplies from within
their large backpacks clinking.

"No, it doesn't," I agreed, turning back to face the congregation. "All the more reason to be
careful. Constance, you and I will take point. Xochitl and Agrippa, you bring up the rear." I
gestured at Alberta, Jerry, and Elsa. "The rest of you, stay between us. Everyone got that?"

"Yes sir!" echoed the soldiers, jogging into position around the civilians. Jack gave what might be
considered a salute while the other two simply nodded.

"Good," I said. For a moment, I surveyed the members of our company with whom I was not familiar.
Alberta was a black younger woman with short-cropped hair that gave her an almost boyish appearance
which perfectly complimented the arrogance that seems to be in the job description of new doctors.
Elsa was a pale older woman with a far-off look in her stony eyes that freaked me out a bit if I'm
being honest; she didn't see you so much as gaze through you. Lastly, there was Jack, a strikingly
handsome olive-skinned younger man with wind-swept sandy hair and a jawline that seemed more at home
on the set of a reality holoshow. They were a motley crew, but they were supposedly some of the best
at their jobs. So long as they could work, they were alright by me. Each of them had backpacks
filled to the brim and then some with their respective tools alongside overnight supplies in case we
needed to sleep in the ship. I prayed it would not come to that.

Turning back to the airlock, I switched on my gun-mounted flashlight. It did little to penetrate the
gloom, but it was a damn sight better than nothing. Clicks from behind told me Xochitl, Agrippa, and
Constance did the same. I gave the signal to move and soon, the ship's darkness embraced us.

---

"You ever seen anything like this, Captain? When you were still with Westering?" asked Constance in
a whisper. An edge of worry seeped into his voice. I heard a small 'woah' from the back of the line
which was probably Xochitl.

"Nope," I said, trying to suppress my own awe. The room we'd entered into was staggeringly massive.
A wall of indeterminate size ran in both directions from the door further than the eye could see.
The roof and opposite wall were surely somewhere above and ahead of us, but none of our lights were
able to find them.

The size of the room wasn't its most striking feature though; that honor belonged to the statues. We
could see dozens where we stood but more peaked out from the veil of blackness. They ranged in
height from the diameter of a Liki coin to beyond the tallest redwoods of my birthplace in Artoras.
They came in a rainbow of colors that made them all the more striking against the darkness of the
ship's walls. From their translucence, they might have been made of stained glass or quartz but that
beggared the question of how they'd survived the ship's violent crash landing. Most of the statues
were standing upright on the ground, but some were suspended by chains, ropes, wires, silk ropes, or
any number of other media I could list from some unseen anchors on the ceiling.

My training told me this place was no good. There were too many places in the shadows of the larger
statues for hostiles to hide. Who knew what could be sequestered just beyond the veil of shadows,
just out of sight but well within the range of whatever lurked out there. "Alright everyone," I
said. I winced before I could continue; the echo was deafening in the silence of the vast chamber
despite my voice's modest volume. If there was anything out there, it certainly knew we were here
now. _Stupid, stupid_, I thought. "Alright everyone," I tried again, this time in barely a whisper.
"We need to get out of this room. We aren't safe in here. Too many places to hide. Agrippa, mark the
path back with the hyper marker. Let's move."

---

We'd been marching amidst the feet of the still giants for what had felt like days but what must not
have been more than a few hours. The density of the statues was like some odd heat map with patches
where you could barely walk between the statues to areas where they entirely abandoned you amidst
the darkness. I honestly couldn't tell which was worse. There was still no good cover for us. Not
much to be done about that, though. So far, we hadn't seen even a hint of activity, so my worry had
faded somewhat. Despite this, I couldn't help but be a bit unsettled by the statues.

As we'd walked, I'd been categorizing the silent watchers a bit more. The task was easier said than
done because there were few unifying characteristics between them. Some might have been modeled on
organic creatures, and these looked pretty familiar in form, even if they didn't look exactly like
any animal I'd ever seen. Some looked more alien: fungal, perhaps robotic, and some even more
exotic. They all held a certain dynamism to them though that belied their models had once been
mobile. Interpreting some of them was kind of like trying to pull shapes out of clouds though. You
maybe knew what you were looking for, and could maybe see it in your peripheral vision, but if you
focused too hard, the familiar faded.

"Captain, can we break?" Elsa asked. "I think we need some rest. I also want to study these
statues."

I sighed. I didn't like it, but the civilians probably needed rest. Plus, we needed to decide what
to do before we proceeded further. At that moment, we were between a few giant statues and their
angular stands gave as much cover as we were going to get. I saw three main corridors between the
stands towards the center, each of which could be guarded by a single person. It was as good as we
were gonna get.

"Alright," I said. I checked my watch; it read 2:34pm. "We'll break here for lunch. Xochitl,
Constance, and I will guard the corridors there, there, and there," I said, pointing as I spoke.
"Agrippa, you help the civilians get some lunch ready. Take stock of where we're going next."

"You got it boss," Agrippa said. He unslung his rifle from his shoulders, placed his backpack on the
floor and broke out the cooking supplies. The xenobiologist immediately wandered over to one of the
statues, leaving the others to make food. Whatever. She could have her fun.

I turned back to my post and stared out into the statue garden we were in. I'd been too focused on
getting us to safety to think about just what the fuck we were getting ourselves into. This was
insanity. Humanity had only come into contact with intelligent aliens twice before and certainly
nothing like _this_. What was the purpose of the morbid garden? Who had built it? Just how big was
this place? These questions and millions more whirled fast enough to unscrew my head from my
shoulders.
